# Datathon-2024
Development of a DS project to predict the assistance to the radiology service in a 3rd level hospital

*Fundación Valle del Lili 
Fundación  Valle del Lili  is a healthcare institution located in the city of Cali, Colombia. The foundation is considered one of the most important medical centers in the region and the country. 
*Radiology Service*
Performs a total number of diagnostic imaging studies per year (average): 250,000. Costs due to no-shows: $241,440,000

Context: The problem of non-attendance to medical appointments generates significant economic losses and affects the operational efficiency of health institutions in Colombia, and in general in any country in the world. To address the problem of patients' non-attendance to scheduled appointments, a classification model can be used in two previously defined classes, which are: "ATTEND" or "DO NOT ATTEND". This helps institutions make informed decisions, optimize resource allocation, reduce operating costs, and improve patient satisfaction and adherence to their treatments.

Data: The data obtained have been received directly from the personnel involved in the area, from the Fundación Valle del Lili. These data are a history generated by the FVL's internal patient management systems, and therefore have the characteristics and attributes of interest to the institution. The dataset includes detailed information on medical appointments and sociodemographic data of patients. It includes data on appointment scheduling and attendance, confirmations, patient history, and type of medical study performed. In addition, it provides personal and social information on patients, such as age, sex, and residence. This data set is useful for analyzing the management of medical appointments and the demographic and socioeconomic profile of the patients seen.
